Fixed Size partitioning
-------------------------
  the number of partitions (non-overlapping) in RAM is fixed but the size of each partition may or may not be the same. As it is a contiguous allocation, hence no spanning is allowed. Here partitions are made before execution or during system configure

  Memory block sizes are fixed and only one process can use a block (causes internal fragmentation)
  Total available of free memory are greater then the coming process but can't be given because it's not contigious (causes external fragmentation)

Variable Size
---------------

   1.Initially RAM is empty and partitions are made during the run-time according to process’s need instead of partitioning during system configure.
    2.The size of partition will be equal to incoming process.
    3.The partition size varies according to the need of the process so that the internal fragmentation can be avoided to ensure efficient utilisation of RAM.
    4.Number of partitions in RAM is not fixed and depends on the number of incoming process and Main Memory’s size.

Advantages of Variable Partitioning –

    No Internal Fragmentation:
    In variable Partitioning, space in main memory is allocated strictly according to the need of process, hence there is no case of internal fragmentation. There will be no unused space left in the partition.
    No restriction on Degree of Multiprogramming:
    More number of processes can be accommodated due to absence of internal fragmentation. A process can be loaded until the memory is empty.
    No Limitation on the size of the process:
    In Fixed partitioning, the process with the size greater than the size of the largest partition could not be loaded and process can not be divided as it is invalid in contiguous allocation technique. Here, In variable partitioning, the process size can’t be restricted since the partition size is decided according to the process size.

Disadvantages of Variable Partitioning –

    Difficult Implementation:
    Implementing variable Partitioning is difficult as compared to Fixed Partitioning as it involves allocation of memory during run-time rather than during system configure.
    External Fragmentation:
    There will be external fragmentation inspite of absence of internal fragmentation.

    For example, suppose in above example- process P1(2MB) and process P3(1MB) completed their execution. Hence two spaces are left i.e. 2MB and 1MB. Let’s suppose process P5 of size 3MB comes. The empty space in memory cannot be allocated as no spanning is allowed in contiguous allocation. The rule says that process must be contiguously present in main memory to get executed. Hence it results in External Fragmentation.

PAGES
-----------------
When we divide a process(in the secondary memory) in fixed size of segments

FRAMES
----------------
When we divide the ram in fixed size of segments

(the Frame and Page sizes are same so that a page can be mapped on a frame) 